src/spec/doc/fragment_design-pattern-template-method.adoc, before:

//////////////////////////////////////////

  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
  distributed with this work for additional information
  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  specific language governing permissions and limitations
  under the License.

//////////////////////////////////////////

= Template Method Pattern


The http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_method_pattern[Template Method Pattern] abstracts away the details of several algorithms.
The generic part of an algorithm is contained within a base class.
Particular implementation details are captured within base classes.
The generic pattern of classes involved looks like this:

[plantuml, TemplateMethodClasses, png]
....
skinparam nodesep 100
class AbstractClass {
    +algorithm1()
    +algorithm2()
    +primitiveOperationA()
    +primitiveOperationB()
}
class ConcreteClass1 {
    +primitiveOperationA()
    +primitiveOperationB()
}
class ConcreteClass2 {
    +primitiveOperationA()
    +primitiveOperationB()
}
object templateMethodUser
hide fields
templateMethodUser ......r......> "<<use>>" AbstractClass
AbstractClass <|-- ConcreteClass1
AbstractClass <|-- ConcreteClass2
....

== Example

In this example, `Accumulator` captures the essence of the accumulation algorithm. The base classes `Sum` and `Product` provide particular customised ways to use the generic accumulation algorithm.

[source,groovy]
----
include::../test/DesignPatternsTest.groovy[tags=template_method_example,indent=0]
----

The resulting output is:

----
10
24
----

In this particular case, you could use Groovy's inject method to achieve a similar result using Closures:

[source,groovy]
----
include::../test/DesignPatternsTest.groovy[tags=template_method_example2,indent=0]
----

Thanks to duck-typing, this would also work with other objects which support an add (plus() in Groovy) method, e.g.:

In this particular case, you could use Groovy's inject method to achieve a similar result using Closures:

[source,groovy]
----
include::../test/DesignPatternsTest.groovy[tags=template_method_example3,indent=0]
----

We could also do the multiplication case as follows:

[source,groovy]
----
include::../test/DesignPatternsTest.groovy[tags=template_method_example4,indent=0]
----

Using closures this way looks more like the <<_strategy_pattern,Strategy Pattern>> but if we realise that the built-in ++inject++ method is the generic part of the algorithm for our template method, then the Closures become the customised parts of the template method pattern.

Commit message:

doco: lambda version of the template method pattern

src/spec/doc/fragment_design-pattern-template-method.adoc, after:

//////////////////////////////////////////

  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
  distributed with this work for additional information
  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  specific language governing permissions and limitations
  under the License.

//////////////////////////////////////////

= Template Method Pattern


The https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_method_pattern[Template Method Pattern] abstracts
away the details of several algorithms.
The generic part of an algorithm is contained within a base class.
Particular implementation details are captured within base classes.
The generic pattern of classes involved looks like this:

[plantuml, TemplateMethodClasses, png]
....
skinparam nodesep 100
class AbstractClass {
    +algorithm1()
    +algorithm2()
    {abstract} +primitiveOperationA()
    {abstract} +primitiveOperationB()
}
class ConcreteClass1 {
    +primitiveOperationA()
    +primitiveOperationB()
}
class ConcreteClass2 {
    +primitiveOperationA()
    +primitiveOperationB()
}
object templateMethodUser
hide fields
templateMethodUser ......r......> "<<use>>" AbstractClass
AbstractClass <|-- ConcreteClass1
AbstractClass <|-- ConcreteClass2
....

== Example with traditional classes

In this example, the base `Accumulator` class captures the essence of the accumulation algorithm.
The concrete classes `Sum` and `Product` provide particular customised ways to use the generic accumulation algorithm.

[source,groovy]
----
include::../test/DesignPatternsTest.groovy[tags=template_method_example,indent=0]
----

== Example with simplifying strategies

In this particular case, you could use Groovy's inject method to achieve a similar result using Closures:

[source,groovy]
----
include::../test/DesignPatternsTest.groovy[tags=template_method_example2,indent=0]
----

Thanks to duck-typing, this would also work with other objects which support an add (`plus()` in Groovy) method, e.g.:

[source,groovy]
----
include::../test/DesignPatternsTest.groovy[tags=template_method_example3,indent=0]
----

We could also do the multiplication case as follows (re-writing as a one-liner):

[source,groovy]
----
include::../test/DesignPatternsTest.groovy[tags=template_method_example4,indent=0]
----
Using closures this way looks like the <<_strategy_pattern,Strategy Pattern>>, but if we realise
that Groovy's `inject` method is the generic part of the algorithm for our template method,
then the Closures become the customised parts of the template method pattern.

For Groovy 3+, we can use lambda syntax as an alternative to the closure syntax:

[source,groovy]
----
include::../test/DesignPatternsTest.groovy[tags=template_method_example5,indent=0]
----

Here the stream api's `reduce` method is the generic part of the algorithm for our template method,
and the lambdas are the customised parts of the template method pattern.
