1 Contributing

There are many ways you can help make Groovy a better piece of software - and we can use all the help we can get :)
Please dive in and help!

Try surf the documentation - if somethings confusing or not clear, let us know.
Download the code & try it out and see what you think. Browse the source code.
Got an itch to scratch, want to tune some operation or add some feature? 

Want to do some hacking on Groovy? Try surfing the our 
{link:issue tracker|http://jira.codehaus.org/secure/BrowseProject.jspa?id=10242} for open issues
or features that need to be implemented, take ownership of an issue and try fix it.

If you'd rather a more gentle introduction to coding on the Groovy project, how about you 
try look at the {link:test coverage report|http://groovy.codehaus.org/clover/} 
and help us get it even more green by supplying more test cases to get us closer to 100% coverage.


1.1 Getting in touch

There are various ways of communicating with the Groovy community. 

- subscribe to the {link:mailing lists|mail-lists.html} and take part in any conversations
- pop by on {link:IRC|irc://irc.codehaus.org/groovy} and say hi
- add some comments to the {link:wiki|http://wiki.codehaus.org/groovy/}
- blog about it and hopefully folks are subscribed to your blog :)

1.1 If you find a bug or problem

Please raise a new issue in our {link:issue tracker|http://jira.codehaus.org/secure/BrowseProject.jspa?id=10242}

If you can create a JUnit test case (either via Groovy or Java code) then your issue is more likely to be resolved quicker.
e.g. take a look at some of the existing unit tests cases 
{link:here|http://cvs.groovy.codehaus.org/viewcvs.cgi/groovy/groovy-core/src/test/groovy/?root=codehaus}, 
find one and modify it to try reproduce your problem.

Then we can add your issue to CVS and then we'll know when its really fixed and 
we can ensure that the problem stays fixed in future releases.

1.1 Submitting patches

We gladly accept patches if you can find ways to improve, tune or fix Groovy in some way.

Most IDEs can create nice patches now very easily. If you're a command line person try the following to create the patch

{code:bash}
diff -u Main.java.orig Main.java >> patchfile.txt
{code}

or

{code:bash}
cvs diff -u Main.java >> patchfile.txt
{code}

1.1 Using the issue tracker

Before you can raise an issue in the issue tracker you need to register with it. This is quick & painless.

If you want to have a go at fixing an issue you need to be in the list of groovy-developers on the issue tracker.
To join the group, please mail the groovy-dev mail list with the email address you used to register with the issue tracker
and we'll add you to the group.
